Seafering
Carpentry
The trees from the green forests on our island may be strong enough even for our phalanxes' shields.  And a strong woodwork can carry the roofs of our buildings.  But in order to be so, the lumbers must be chosen and handled properly!  A Carpenter in our town would take care of it and we would use much fewer building material!
8
Allows: Construction of Carpenter's.
None
Deck Weapons
A rotating attachment for our battleships on which we can mount huge weapons!  For a start our inventors have mounted a huge crossbow on it.  But we assume that the attachment will be able to bear other machines, too.  So as soon as one of our scientists has an idea we can install it on our ships without any problem.
12
Allows: Building of Ballista Ship's in the Shipyard's.
Requirement(s):	Carpentry ( Seafaring )
Dry-Dock ( Military )
Ship Maintenance
If we always keep our ships nice and clean, they don't have to be repaired that often.  It will also keep up the morale of the crew when they sing some songs together from time to time while scrubbing the deck or mending the sail cloths.
24
Allows: Reduction in upkeep costs for ships by - 2%.
Requirement(s):	Deck_Weapons( Seafaring )
Draft
Our scientists have found out that our ships have less water resistance when their load is smaller.  This means that we can put larger sails on the mast and travel more quickly.
24
Allows: Quicker Cargo Ship's with lighter loads.
Ship Maintenance ( Seafaring )
Expansion
Out there is more than just an ocean!  More islands await being discovered.  We are not alone!  We can gain ground on one of the newly discovered island, tap new resources and get to know other peoples!  And our clerks are eager to administer even more!
336
Allows:
Construction of the Palace to add additional colonies.
Construction of Governor's Residence's to reduce the amount corruption that can be found in colonies.
Draft ( Seafaring )
Wealth ( Economy )
Foreign Cultures
If we get to know all the other peoples, this will help us to make progress ourselves.  Regular talks and warm words can work true wonders and lead to new alliances and friendships.  Of course we need a pretty and cozy building for all the ambassadors and the feasts we will hold in their honor!
1,032
Allows: Construction of Embassy'es.
Expansion ( Seafaring )
Espionage ( Science )
Pitch
That is some tough and badly smelling liquid our scientists have found there!  But since we stick it onto our ships there are hardly any holes we have to mend!
2,236 Research Point(s)
Effect:	Allows: Reduction in upkeep costs for ships by - 4%.
Requirement(s):	Foreign Cultures ( Seafaring )
Market
The strangest goods from distant islands arrive on our markets.  Here we can also make deals with traders, so we are sure to get all the raw materials we need.
3,264
Allows:
Offering of Trade Treaties.
Requirement(s):	Pitch ( Seafaring )
Improved Resource Gathering ( Economy )
Greek Fire
A fire that can't be extinguished with water!  With this mixture from many secret ingredients we can now set fire to ships and sink them!  Soon we will conquer the seas with a ship that has the breath of a dragon!
7,020
Allows: Construction of Fire Ships at the Shipyard.
Market ( Seafaring )
Polytheism ( Science )
Counterweight
Our scientists have improved the weapon's attachment for our ships, so that they don't tear apart when we fling huge rocks towards our enemies.  And thanks to the counterweight our catapult stays on board now and doesn't launch itself anymore.
9,936 Research Point(s)
Allows: Construction of Catapult Ships at the Shipyard.
Greek Fire ( Seafaring )
Architecture ( Economy )
Diplomacy
One of our philosophers has written down wise things about war and peace.  He has advised us to confederate with other nations so that we can fight our enemies together!
17,064 Research Point(s)
Allows: Offering of Garrison Rights.
Counterweight ( Seafaring )
Governor ( Military )
Sea Charts / Sea Maps
Our voyages will be much safer if we write down where all the dangerous currents and treacherous shallows are!  Then our seamen won't have to be afraid of any jagged rocks, deadly maelstroms and the seductive sirens any more.
25,632 Research Point(s)
Reduces upkeep costs for ships by - 8%.
Paddle Wheel Engine
Great news for our seamen:  A steam driven paddle wheel lets our ships ride much faster as they could ever do with oarsmen.  Now we can teach fear to our enemies with our mighty paddle wheel rams!
38,400
Allows: Construction of Speedboat's at the Shipyard.
Sea Charts ( Seafaring )
Cultural Exchange ( Science )
Caulking
With this technology, our engineers can seal leaky ships.  Caulking in and in front of the port is a complicated undertaking, but gives our fleets the chance to get ready for battle between two attacks.
53,000
Allows: The construction of Tender's in the shipyard.
Paddle Wheel Engine ( Seafaring )
Mortar Attachment
This mortar is so huge, that not even Hercules could drag it along.  Only an armored steam ship is strong enough to carry it and all the huge balls it can fire at our enemies.
93,240
Allows: Construction of Mortar Ship's in the Shipyard.
Requirement(s):	Caulking ( Seafaring )
Optics ( Science )
Massive Ram
One of the most dangerous sea units can be built with the ram. This masterpiece of engineering ingenuity is attached to the ship's bow and can inflict massive amounts of damage onto other ships.
120,000
Allows: The construction of Steam Ram's in the Shipyard.
Mortar Attachment ( Seafaring )
Offshore Base
We can use this research to build some of the largest ships in the shipyard. These are equipped with balloons that bomb opponents on the high seas.
475,000
Allows: The construction of Balloon Carrier's in the shipyard.
Massive Ram ( Seafaring )
The Archimedic Principle ( Science )
Seafaring Future's
The secrets of the oceans are finally ours!  Our ships are constantly becoming tougher and faster!  There are almost no ships on this ocean capable of competing with yours.
532,800 x level Research Point(s)
2% less (0.98) gold upkeep cost upkeep for your ships per level - (16 – 64)%
Total ship upkeep cost × (0.84 – 0.36)
Offshore Base ( Seafaring )
Utopia ( Economy )
The Archimedic Principle / The Archimedean Principle ( Science )
Cannon Casting ( Military )
Economy
Conservation
We have learned how to store our resources well protected and in the long term.  Also a part of our resources is safe from pirates and other villains who want to steal from us.
12
Allows: Construction of Warehouse's.
None
Pulley
A brilliant idea:  A rope that is pulled over a roll gives a simple man the strength of Hercules.  So now our workers can lift up huge blocks of stone on their own and construct our buildings even faster!
24
Allows: Reduction in building costs by - 2%.
Cumulative with Reduction Building's - (0 – 32)%.
Producing an approximated minimum reduction of - (2 – 34)%.
Conservation ( Economy )
Wealth
The earth is full of valuable treasures!  We have learned how to mine sulphur and crystal glass and how to chisel marble off rocks.  We are also growing wonderful vines on the fertile land on our hills which produce delicious wine!  A new era of prosperity will dawn on us when we start using these treasures.  We can then sell goods at a Trading post and buy what we need from foreign traders.
112
Allows:
Construction of Trading post's.
Production of Luxury Good's.
Gives: 130 wine 130 marble 130 crystal glass 130 sulfur
Expansion ( Seafaring )
Pulley ( Economy )
Wine Culture
A happy population needs festivals in which they can spend hours reveling and drinking our fantastic free-flowing wine.  Dionysos loves seeing us enjoying what he has given us!
336
Allows: Construction of Tavern's.
Wealth ( Economy )
Well Construction / Well Digging ( Science )
Improved Resource Gathering
Some time has passed since we learned how to use the treasures of our island for our needs.  We should now educate our workers and let every forest, quarry or vineyard, every sulphur pit or crystal mine administer by men who are not only strong but also skillful.  This way we will gather even more income and our civilization will get richer than ever!
1,204
Allows: Construction of Resource Production Building's: 
Forester's House's for Wood
Stonemason's for Marble
Winegrower's for Wine
Alchemist's Tower's for Sulphur/Sulfur
Glassblower's for Crystal Glass
Allows: Market ( Seafaring )
Wine Culture ( Economy )
Expansion ( Seafaring )
Geometry
Right angles, triangles, circles – a few bright minds can calculate how we can construct our buildings even better and more beautiful.  And soon our towns will serve as examples for the whole world!
2,236
Allows: Reduction in building costs by - 4%.
Improved Resource Gathering ( Economy )
Architecture
A good house can withstand the harshest elements.  It can withstand them even better when a bright mind takes care of it with many drawings and a little mathematics before hand, so that all walls are straight and the roof is tight.  Thanks to angle and compass our buildings will be much more stable and well protected from the rain.  An Architect's Office would spare us much marble, just think about the savings constructing a new building!
3,672
Allows: Construction of Architect's Office's to decrease Marble consumption.
Geometry ( Economy )
Polytheism ( Science )
Holiday / Relaxation Holiday
A worker who has had a good rest is much more eager to work than an exhausted one.  That's why every citizen should have one day off per week.  This will make all our citizens happier!
7,200
Allows:
+ 25 happiness in all towns.
Architecture ( Economy )
Law / Legislation
We think it's a good idea to define the rules of living together on paper.  This means that every island inhabitant can look up what's allowed and what isn't - meaning they'll be no more room for excuses!
8,242
Allows: Nomocracy form of Government.
Holiday / Relaxation Holiday ( Economy )
Ink ( Science )
Culinary Specialities / Culinary Specialties
Our culture is truly rich in delicious treats!  If we have cooks joining our soldiers in battle it won't take more than the smell, that reminds them of their home kitchens, to strengthen their fighting spirit.  And it shouldn't be forgotten, that a hearty meal has always brought a man back onto his feet.  And of course a cook has a sharp knife he can jump in to the fight with.
10,764
Allows: Training of Cook's in the Barracks.
Law / Legislation ( Economy )
Market ( Seafaring )
Helping Hands
If our citizens help out a little underground instead of tanning themselves on the beach, we'll get more raw materials and they'll get less sunburn.  There's always a need for help down the mines (crystal mine, sulphur pit and quarry), saw mills and vineyards.
19,908
Allows: Overloading of resources.
You can assign up to 50% extra manpower to work, but each worker, being unskilled, is only 25% (0.25) as effective. (i.e. You can boost resource production by 12.5% [0.125]).
Culinary Specialties ( Economy )
Cultural Exchange ( Science )
Spirit Level
Water is always even.  We should use this knowledge so that our buildings become even, too!  Our town will become even more beautiful and we will use less stone and wood for constructing our buildings!
25,632
Reduces building costs by - 8%.
Helping Hands ( Economy )
Wine Cellars / Wine Press House
What an event those annual wine feasts are!  The whole town is up on its feet when the best grapes are stomped into wine and when the liquid gold splashes around, the kids have their most fun!  With a Wine Press though, handled by an experienced wine maker, we would lose much less.  The winemaker could also care for a proper storage that allows us to let the wine age and mature well!
48,000
Allows: Construction of Wine Press'es.
Spirit Level ( Economy )
Depot / Waste Dump
As our Warehouses cannot handle the increasing amount of goods, we will need alternatives in the long run.  Advanced methods of sealed tarpaulins and covers should enable us to store large amounts of goods in the open air.
48,000
Allows: Construction of Dump's.
Wine Cellars / Wine Press House ( Economy )
Soldier Exchange
Our battle-tested warriors in their shiny armour, and our progressive war machines have become legendary.  Now it's time to make a profit from them.  Other leaders will be eager to purchase these troops.
56,000
Allows: Construction of Black Market's.
Depot / Waste Dump ( Economy )
Bureaucracy
Now our Palace has even more shelves, boxes and drawers, even more piles of records and forms and clerks who can understand it all.  Finally we can afford to build and administer another building in our towns!
106,560
Allows:	An additional building ground in every town.	
Bureaucracy building ground
Soldier Exchange ( Economy )
Utopia
Our citizens are living in wealth and prosperity.  They are happy and healthy and have very little to worry about.  Yes, one could say we are living in one of those places that you can only find in the scriptures from one of the great philosophers.
241,200
Effect:	Allows:
+ 200 happiness in your Capital only.
Bureaucracy ( Economy )
Massive Ram ( Seafaring )
Letter Chute ( Science )
Gunpowder ( Military )
Economic Future's
Our citizens live in wealth and the marketplace is spilling over with delicacies from all over the world!  The streets are clean and developed, this way the building material reaches the building site quicker.
532,800 x level
Allows:
+ 10 happiness in all towns per level.
Offshore Base ( Seafaring )
Utopia ( Economy )
The Archimedic Principle / The Archimedean Principle ( Science )
Canon Casting / Cannon Casting ( Military )

Science

Well Construction / Well Digging
Eureka!  A well in our settlement!  Now we don't have to wait for rain all the time.  Our citizens will be much better off and the fields don't have to be dry for that long!
Cost:	24 24 Research Point(s)
Effect:	Allows:
+ 50 happiness in your Capital only
Requirement(s):	None

Paper
We have found a way how to write down our knowledge!  Now we have scriptures made from the papyrus plant, so we don't have to chisel our words into the heavy stones anymore in order to fill our library!
Cost:	30 30 Research Point(s)
Effect:	Allows: Increase of + 2% (× 1.02) more  Research Point(s) research points per scientist per hour.
Requirement(s):	Well Construction / Well Digging ( Science )

Espionage
When some of our citizens settle down in other towns, they can help us to keep an eye on our neighbors.  We could keep ourselves informed when a neighbor makes a discovery or what kind of resources he has in stock.
Cost:	420 420 Research Point(s)
Effect:	Allows: Building of Hideout's.
Allows: Foreign Cultures ( Seafaring )
Requirement(s):	Paper ( Science )
Wealth ( Economy )

Polytheism
Man cannot rationally explain everything that happens in the world.  And whenever he cannot explain it, the answer is sought from the gods.  Gods are like humans on the one hand, but are very different on the other hand.  After all, what other kind of rational explanation can the unexplainable have?
Cost:	1,428 1,428 Research Point(s)
Effect:	Allows: Construction of Temple's.
Allows: Greek Fire ( Seafaring )
Requirement(s):	Espionage ( Science )
Expansion ( Seafaring )
Professional Army ( Military )

Ink
Nature gives us everything we need to write:  The birds give us their feathers and eight-armed fish out of the sea provide us with their black ink!  Now we can write down our ideas even better!
Cost:	2,652 2,652 Research Point(s)
Effect:	Allows: Increase of + 4% (1.04)  Research Point(s) more research points per scientist per hour.
Requirement(s)	Polytheism ( Science )

Government Formation
We have been thinking about the fact that a different form of government could give us special advantages.  To do so there would be quite a lot to organize and we would possibly have to cut down on some staff, but it would be great to have that kind of government.
Cost:	2,836 2,836 Research Point(s)
Effect:	Allows: Starting a Revolution:
Allowing: Change your form of Government:
Dictatorship (Government).
Oligarchy (Government).
Requirement(s):	Ink ( Science )

Invention
There has recently been a number of incidents related to exploding powder and other substances.  That's why we have set up an own Workshops for all the nosy scientists, so that all the explosions don't disturb the work in the academy any more.  It also has stronger walls and can't burn down so easily.
Cost:	4,320
Effect:	Allows: Construction of Workshop's.
Allowing: Upgrades to units and ships so that they can do more damage and/or gain better armor.
Requirement(s):	Government Formation ( Science )
Improved Resource Gathering ( Economy )

Cultural Exchange
Our citizens should really have a look at the cultural achievements of other people.  And surely, in exchange, they will be interested in learning from us and exhibiting some of our great works of art in their museums.
Cost:	8,694 8,694 Research Point(s)
Effect:	Allows: Construction of Museum's.
Allowing: Exchange of Cultural Good's among other players.
Requirement(s)	Invention ( Science )

Anatomy
We have learned a lot about the human body!  Now we can send doctors into the battle to help the wounded soldiers to quickly get back on to their feet again.  Of course they can mix the right tinctures and some doctors even know a secret recipe for a mixture that makes our fighters even braver.
Cost:	14,952 14,952 Research Point(s)
Effect:	Allows: Training of Doctor's in the Barracks'.
Requirement(s):	Cultural Exchange ( Science )

Optics
When our scientists invent many new things, a glass can break.  Or it gets lost in the infinite vastness of our laboratories, as keeping them tidy isn't really the primal virtue of the academy.  If an optician would take care of not only the quality, but also that all the lenses and glasses are put back where they belong, we would use far less crystal glass!
Cost:	21,360 21,360 Research Point(s)
Effect:	Allows: Construction of Optician's.
Requirement(s):	Anatomy ( Science )
Architecture ( Economy )

Experiments
Our scientists want to have the chance of testing their theories in practice.  These trials would most probably accelerate research time, but does mean they would need a certain amount of additional laboratory equipment.
Cost:	21,360 21,360 Research Point(s)
Effect:	Allows:
Swapping of Crystal Glass Crystal Glass for research points  Research Point(s).
Government form: Technocracy.
Requirement(s):	Optics ( Science )

Mechanical Pen
A brilliant little apparatus:  A smart inventor has managed to teach writing to a machine.  Now we can easily copy our scriptures and our academies can quickly exchange their ideas with each other!
Cost:	31,968 31,968 Research Point(s)
Effect:	Allows: Increase of +8%  +8% more Research Points more (× 1.08) research points per scientist per hour.
Requirement(s):	Experiments ( Science )

Bird's Flight
We have learned how to fly like the birds!  Now we can build a machine that can lift a man up into the skies and whizzes above the heads of our enemies with breath-taking speed shooting arrows far behind the front lines.
Cost:	46,848 46,848 Research Point(s)
Effect:	Allows: Recruiting of Gyrocopter's in the Barracks'.
Requirement(s):	Mechanical Pen ( Science )
Ballistics ( Military )

Archiving
We should probably archive our treasured sea charts.  This will allow our sailors to always find the maps they need and save time on their journeys.
Cost:	98,000 98,000 Research Point(s)
Effect:	Allows: Construction of a Sea Chart Archive's in each town.
Requirement(s):	Bird's Flight ( Science )
Sea Charts ( Seafaring )
Letter Chute
A marvel: We can now shoot scrolls through pipes, so that they reach our scientists even faster! This saves us long errands and we have to pay less gold for our scientists!
Cost:	144,720 144,720 Research Point(s)
Effect:	Allows: - 3  Gold less upkeep per scientist Scientist.
Producing an approximated reduction of - 3  Gold.
Requirement(s):	Archiving ( Science )
Counterweight ( Seafaring )
Helping Hands ( Economy )
Pyrotechnics ( Military )

State Religion
Actually we don't need any secular laws - the religious ones are more than enough.  And while we're at it:  we don't actually need all our civil servants.
Cost:	202,074 202,074 Research Point(s)
Effect:	Allows: Theocracy form of Government.
Requirement(s):	Letter Chute ( Science )
Pressure Chamber
Now we can let our ships sail under water, without them sinking immediately!  The oceans are ours!  No enemy will see us, when we stalk them under water and sink them before they notice us!
Cost:	209,880 209,880 Research Point(s)
Effect:	Allows: Building of Diving Boat's in the Shipyard's.
Requirement(s):	State Religion ( Science )
Paddle Wheel Engine ( Seafaring )
Robotics ( Military )

The Archimedean Principle / The Archimedic Principle
We have managed to let a machine fly!  Now even the sky isn't a limit anymore!  We can let huge balloons fly over the heads of our enemies and throw fire or bee-hives at them from above!
Cost:	444,000
Allows: Recruiting of Balloon-Bombardier's in the Barracks'.
Pressure Chamber ( Science )

Scientific Future's
The smartest brains in the world are working to answer the big question:  Why are we here?  Why is everything the way it is?  And again we are closer to enlightenment.
610,560 x level
2% more  2% more Research Point(s) (+.02) research points per scientist per level (+16% — 64%)
Total scientists x (1.16 — 1.64)
Offshore Base ( Seafaring )
Utopia ( Economy )
The Archimedic Principle ( Science )
Canon Casting ( Military )